So switch 1 we're gonna shut this interface down
to force traffic to go via the hub
So interface gigabit 0/2 shut it down
sh in g0/3 switchport
this port gigabit 0/3 is acting as a trunk
using 802.1Q all VLANs are allowed.
So let’s do a capture on the hub, were receiving PVST information
and notice the difference here's an 802.1Q header
so we have Ethernet but notice the type is not IPv4
the type is 802.1Q, so the type is 0x8100 rather than 0x0800 for IP.
so 802.1Q frame, we can see here
that the VLAN ID for this PVST message is VLAN 1
Per-VLAN Spanning Tree sends what are called BPDUs on every VLAN
so here we can see some Spanning Tree information
and as we scroll down
we can see that as an example CDP and VTP messages
or in this case, DTP is sent as an untagged frame.
So we can see some DTP information arriving here.
And that will continue on.
So let’s do a ping from router 2 acting as PC 2 to router 4
and see if we can see why the frames are not permitted.
So ICMP is showing nothing, so we can see a broadcast here
this is an ARP message saying who has 10.1.2.4
so in this ARP message, I'll just stop that capture for a moment.
Here’s the ARP you can see it's an Ethernet 2 frame
with the broadcast so the destination is broadcast.
Source MAC address is the MAC address of router 2.
We can see that by looking at the interface
so sh int f0/0 notice there’s the MAC address of the router
and they're already shown in the Wireshark capture
but notice the type is once again 802.1Q and the VLAN is set to VLAN 2.
So in other words, the router is sending the frame untagged to the switch.
But when it go across this link it's going as a tagged frame.
The switch is setting the VLAN tag to 2
because it arrived on this port which is in VLAN 2.
I’m just reset that capture
and what I want to show you is on this port
it's gonna show us untagged, so it's standard Ethernet
but on this one, it's gonna show us tagged
because the switch is tagging the frame.
So I'll do the ping again
now this is the frame to the switch from the router
and we'll the switch for ARP, you can see this, the ARP traffic
from the router to a broadcast address it's untagged, this is the type for ARP.
There is no 802.1Q header here at all.
But when we look for ARP on the link between these switches
notice you can see the 802.1Q tagged set to 2.
So the traffic is arriving here as untagged
and the switch is tagging it to send the frame to switch 2.
The problem here is when the traffic hits switch 2
switch 2 is not configured with trunking
this is just an access port in VLAN 1.
So that traffic will be sent to this port
but not out of this port which is in VLAN 2.
So on switch 2 let’s see if we can see that.
sh int trunk
At the moment no interfaces are trunking
so sh int g0/3
and let’s put switchport at the end
so sh interfaces g0/3 switchport
this interface gigabit 0/3 is enabled
it's set for negotiation of trunking. So it’s in VLAN 1.
This port belongs to VLAN 1, it’s an access port, no trunking is enabled
so traffic from router 2 is simply gonna be sent out of this port.
So let’s do a capture there to prove that
and then we'll do a capture on this port
to check if any traffic arrives on this port.
So there's the Wireshark capture
do the ping again on router 2
I’ll do a filter for ARP
and notice there's the broadcast traffic from 10.1.2.2
which is router 2 asking for the MAC address of 10.1.2.4
So router 2 is asking for the MAC address of router 4 but it never receives it.
So what you'll also notice here is there is no 8021.Q tag.
So the frame was sent untagged here
it was sent tagged cross here
arrived here but this port was configured as an access port in VLAN 1.
So the traffic was simply copied out on this port in VLAN 1 and with no tag.
The traffic never arrived in this port.
So let’s prove that do a capture here.
I’ll do the ping again, and try and filter for ARP
and what you’ll notice is there's no ARP traffic
because the traffic is arriving on an access port.
Port 1 it’s only gonna be sent out of this port which is port 1.
It’s not gonna set out of this port at all.
so let’s stop all captures
and then what we'll do now is configure this port to be a trunk port
and this port to be a trunk port
but we'll leave this port shutdown for the moment
so that we can see the traffic being captured.